docs/content/1.getting-started/2.installation/2.vue.md, before:

---
title: Installation
description: 'Learn how to install and configure Nuxt UI in your Vue application.'
framework: vue
module: ui
links:
  - label: Playground
    to: https://codesandbox.io/p/devbox/nuxt-ui3-vue-4h5gqn
    icon: i-lucide-codesandbox
navigation.icon: i-lucide-square-play
---

::callout{to="/getting-started/installation/nuxt" icon="i-logos-nuxt-icon" class="hidden"}
Looking for the **Nuxt** version?
::

## Setup

### Add to a Vue project

::steps{level="4"}

#### Install the Nuxt UI v3 alpha package

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxt/ui@next
```

::

::warning
If you're using **pnpm**, ensure that you either set [`shamefully-hoist=true`](https://pnpm.io/npmrc#shamefully-hoist) in your `.npmrc` file or install `tailwindcss`, `vue-router` and `@unhead/vue` in your project's root directory.
::

#### Add the Nuxt UI Vite plugin in your `vite.config.ts`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]{3,8}
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui()
  ]
})
```

::tip
Nuxt UI registers `unplugin-auto-import` and `unplugin-vue-components`, which will generate `auto-imports.d.ts` and `components.d.ts` type declaration files. You will likely want to gitignore these, and add them to your `tsconfig`.

```json [tsconfig.app.json]
{
  "include": ["src/**/*.ts", "src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.vue", "auto-imports.d.ts", "components.d.ts"]
}
```

```bash [.gitignore]
# Auto-generated type declarations
auto-imports.d.ts
components.d.ts
```

::

#### Use the Nuxt UI Vue plugin in your `main.ts`

```ts [main.ts]{3,14}
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vue-plugin'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

const router = createRouter({
  routes: [],
  history: createWebHistory()
})

app.use(router)
app.use(ui)

app.mount('#app')
```

#### Import Tailwind CSS and Nuxt UI in your CSS

```css [assets/main.css]
@import "tailwindcss" theme(static);
@import "@nuxt/ui";
```

::warning
The `theme(static)` is required since [`tailwindcss@4.0.8`](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/releases/tag/v4.0.8) introduced a breaking change to only expose used CSS variables.
::

::tip
Import the CSS file in your `main.ts`.

```ts [main.ts]{1}
import './assets/main.css'

import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vue-plugin'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

const router = createRouter({
  routes: [],
  history: createWebHistory()
})

app.use(router)
app.use(ui)

app.mount('#app')
```

::

::callout{icon="i-simple-icons-visualstudiocode"}
It's recommended to install the [Tailwind CSS IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss) extension for VSCode and add the following settings:

```json [.vscode/settings.json]
"files.associations": {
  "*.css": "tailwindcss"
},
"editor.quickSuggestions": {
  "strings": "on"
}
```

::

#### Wrap your app with App component

```vue [App.vue]
<template>
  <UApp>
    <RouterView />
  </UApp>
</template>
```

::note{to="/components/app"}
The `App` component provides global configurations and is required for **Toast** and **Tooltip** components to work.
::

::

### Use our Vue starter

Start your project using the [nuxtlabs/nuxt-ui-vue-starter](https://github.com/nuxtlabs/nuxt-ui-vue-starter) template with Nuxt UI v3 pre-configured.

Create a new project locally by running the following command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi init -t github:nuxtlabs/nuxt-ui-vue-starter <my-app>
```

::note
The `<my-app>` argument is the name of the directory where the project will be created, replace it with your project name.
::

Once the installation is complete, navigate into your project and start the development server:

```bash [Terminal]
cd <my-app>
npm run dev
```

## Options

You can customize Nuxt UI by providing options in your `vite.config.ts`.

### `prefix`

Use the `prefix` option to change the prefix of the components.

- Default: `U`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      prefix: 'Nuxt'
    })
  ]
})
```

### `ui`

Use the `ui` option to provide configuration for Nuxt UI.

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      ui: {
        colors: {
          primary: 'green',
          neutral: 'slate'
        }
      }
    })
  ]
})
```

### `colorMode`

Use the `colorMode` option to enable or disable the color mode integration from `@vueuse/core`.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      colorMode: false
    })
  ]
})
```

### `theme.colors`

Use the `theme.colors` option to define the dynamic color aliases used to generate components theme.

- Default: `['primary', 'secondary', 'success', 'info', 'warning', 'error']`{lang="ts-type" class="inline"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      theme: {
        colors: ['primary', 'error']
      }
    })
  ]
})
```

::tip{to="/getting-started/theme#colors"}
Learn more about color customization and theming in the Theme section.
::

### `theme.transitions`

Use the `theme.transitions` option to enable or disable transitions on components.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      theme: {
        transitions: false
      }
    })
  ]
})
```

::note
This option adds the `transition-colors` class on components with hover or active states.
::

## Continuous Releases

Nuxt UI v3 uses [pkg.pr.new](https://github.com/stackblitz-labs/pkg.pr.new) for continuous preview releases, providing developers with instant access to the latest features and bug fixes without waiting for official releases.

Preview releases are automatically generated for every commit to the `v3` branch and pull requests targeting the `v3` branch. To use it into your project, use the installation command below by replacing `5385f84` with any commit hash or pull request number.

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [npm]
npm install https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [bun]
bun add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

::

::note
**pkg.pr.new** will automatically comment on PRs with the installation URL, making it easy to test changes.
::

Commit message:

feat(useOverlay)!: handle programmatic modals and slideovers (#3279)
Co-authored-by: Benjamin Canac <canacb1@gmail.com>

docs/content/1.getting-started/2.installation/2.vue.md, after:

---
title: Installation
description: 'Learn how to install and configure Nuxt UI in your Vue application.'
framework: vue
module: ui
links:
  - label: Playground
    to: https://codesandbox.io/p/devbox/nuxt-ui3-vue-4h5gqn
    icon: i-lucide-codesandbox
navigation.icon: i-lucide-square-play
---

::callout{to="/getting-started/installation/nuxt" icon="i-logos-nuxt-icon" class="hidden"}
Looking for the **Nuxt** version?
::

## Setup

### Add to a Vue project

::steps{level="4"}

#### Install the Nuxt UI v3 alpha package

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxt/ui@next
```

::

::warning
If you're using **pnpm**, ensure that you either set [`shamefully-hoist=true`](https://pnpm.io/npmrc#shamefully-hoist) in your `.npmrc` file or install `tailwindcss`, `vue-router` and `@unhead/vue` in your project's root directory.
::

#### Add the Nuxt UI Vite plugin in your `vite.config.ts`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]{3,8}
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui()
  ]
})
```

::tip
Nuxt UI registers `unplugin-auto-import` and `unplugin-vue-components`, which will generate `auto-imports.d.ts` and `components.d.ts` type declaration files. You will likely want to gitignore these, and add them to your `tsconfig`.

```json [tsconfig.app.json]
{
  "include": ["src/**/*.ts", "src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.vue", "auto-imports.d.ts", "components.d.ts"]
}
```

```bash [.gitignore]
# Auto-generated type declarations
auto-imports.d.ts
components.d.ts
```

::

#### Use the Nuxt UI Vue plugin in your `main.ts`

```ts [main.ts]{3,14}
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vue-plugin'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

const router = createRouter({
  routes: [],
  history: createWebHistory()
})

app.use(router)
app.use(ui)

app.mount('#app')
```

#### Import Tailwind CSS and Nuxt UI in your CSS

```css [assets/main.css]
@import "tailwindcss" theme(static);
@import "@nuxt/ui";
```

::warning
The `theme(static)` is required since [`tailwindcss@4.0.8`](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/releases/tag/v4.0.8) introduced a breaking change to only expose used CSS variables.
::

::tip
Import the CSS file in your `main.ts`.

```ts [main.ts]{1}
import './assets/main.css'

import { createApp } from 'vue'
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vue-plugin'
import App from './App.vue'

const app = createApp(App)

const router = createRouter({
  routes: [],
  history: createWebHistory()
})

app.use(router)
app.use(ui)

app.mount('#app')
```

::

::callout{icon="i-simple-icons-visualstudiocode"}
It's recommended to install the [Tailwind CSS IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss) extension for VSCode and add the following settings:

```json [.vscode/settings.json]
"files.associations": {
  "*.css": "tailwindcss"
},
"editor.quickSuggestions": {
  "strings": "on"
}
```

::

#### Wrap your app with App component

```vue [App.vue]
<template>
  <UApp>
    <RouterView />
  </UApp>
</template>
```

::note{to="/components/app"}
The `App` component provides global configurations and is required for **Toast**, **Tooltip** components to work as well as **Programmatic Overlays**.
::

::

### Use our Vue starter

Start your project using the [nuxtlabs/nuxt-ui-vue-starter](https://github.com/nuxtlabs/nuxt-ui-vue-starter) template with Nuxt UI v3 pre-configured.

Create a new project locally by running the following command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi init -t github:nuxtlabs/nuxt-ui-vue-starter <my-app>
```

::note
The `<my-app>` argument is the name of the directory where the project will be created, replace it with your project name.
::

Once the installation is complete, navigate into your project and start the development server:

```bash [Terminal]
cd <my-app>
npm run dev
```

## Options

You can customize Nuxt UI by providing options in your `vite.config.ts`.

### `prefix`

Use the `prefix` option to change the prefix of the components.

- Default: `U`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      prefix: 'Nuxt'
    })
  ]
})
```

### `ui`

Use the `ui` option to provide configuration for Nuxt UI.

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      ui: {
        colors: {
          primary: 'green',
          neutral: 'slate'
        }
      }
    })
  ]
})
```

### `colorMode`

Use the `colorMode` option to enable or disable the color mode integration from `@vueuse/core`.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      colorMode: false
    })
  ]
})
```

### `theme.colors`

Use the `theme.colors` option to define the dynamic color aliases used to generate components theme.

- Default: `['primary', 'secondary', 'success', 'info', 'warning', 'error']`{lang="ts-type" class="inline"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      theme: {
        colors: ['primary', 'error']
      }
    })
  ]
})
```

::tip{to="/getting-started/theme#colors"}
Learn more about color customization and theming in the Theme section.
::

### `theme.transitions`

Use the `theme.transitions` option to enable or disable transitions on components.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [vite.config.ts]
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import ui from '@nuxt/ui/vite'

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    vue(),
    ui({
      theme: {
        transitions: false
      }
    })
  ]
})
```

::note
This option adds the `transition-colors` class on components with hover or active states.
::

## Continuous Releases

Nuxt UI v3 uses [pkg.pr.new](https://github.com/stackblitz-labs/pkg.pr.new) for continuous preview releases, providing developers with instant access to the latest features and bug fixes without waiting for official releases.

Preview releases are automatically generated for every commit to the `v3` branch and pull requests targeting the `v3` branch. To use it into your project, use the installation command below by replacing `5385f84` with any commit hash or pull request number.

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [npm]
npm install https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [bun]
bun add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

::

::note
**pkg.pr.new** will automatically comment on PRs with the installation URL, making it easy to test changes.
::
