docs/content/1.getting-started/1.index.md, before:

---
navigation.title: Introduction
title: Nuxt UI v3
description: 'A comprehensive, Nuxt-integrated UI library providing a rich set of fully-styled, accessible and highly customizable components for building modern web applications.'
navigation.icon: i-lucide-house
---

We're thrilled to introduce this major update to our UI library, bringing significant improvements and powerful new features. Nuxt UI v3 represents a leap forward in creating robust, accessible, and highly customizable user interfaces for Nuxt applications.

## What's New in v3?

<iframe width="100%" height="100%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/_eQxomah-nA?si=pDSzchUBDKb2NQu7" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="aspect-ratio: 16/9;" class="rounded-[calc(var(--ui-radius)*1.5)]"></iframe>

### Reka UI

We've transitioned from [Headless UI](https://headlessui.com/) to [Reka UI](https://reka-ui.com/) as our core component foundation. This shift brings several key advantages:

- **Extensive Component Library**: With 55+ primitives, Reka UI significantly expands our component offerings.
- **Active Development**: Reka UI's growing popularity ensures ongoing improvements and updates.
- **Enhanced Accessibility**: Built-in accessibility features align with our commitment to inclusive design.
- **Vue 3 Optimization**: Seamless integration with Vue 3 and the Composition API.

This transition empowers Nuxt UI to become a more comprehensive and flexible UI library, offering developers greater power and customization options.

### Tailwind CSS v4

Nuxt UI v3 integrates the latest Tailwind CSS v4, bringing significant improvements:

- **Built for performance**: Full builds in the new engine are up to 5x faster, and incremental builds are over 100x faster — and measured in microseconds.
- **Unified toolchain**: Built-in import handling, vendor prefixing, and syntax transforms, with no additional tooling required.
- **CSS-first configuration**: A reimagined developer experience where you customize and extend the framework directly in CSS instead of a JavaScript configuration file.
- **Designed for the modern web**: Built on native cascade layers, wide-gamut colors, and including first-class support for modern CSS features like container queries, @starting-style, popovers, and more.

::note{to="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/upgrade-guide" target="_blank" aria-label="Tailwind CSS v4 upgrade guide"}
Learn how to upgrade your project from Tailwind CSS v3 to v4.
::

### Tailwind Variants

We've adopted [Tailwind Variants](https://www.tailwind-variants.org/) to manage our design system, offering:

- **Dynamic Styling**: Flexible component variants with a powerful API
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with auto-completion
- **Conflict Resolution**: Efficient merging of conflicting styles

This integration unifies the styling of components, ensuring consistency and code maintainability.

### TypeScript Integration

Nuxt UI v3 offers significantly improved TypeScript integration, providing a superior developer experience:

- **Enhanced Auto-completion**:
  - Full auto-completion for component props based on your theme
  - Intelligent suggestions for `app.config.ts` theme configuration

- **Generic-based Components**:
  - Built using [Vue 3 Generics](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-script-setup.html#generics)
  - Improved type inference for slots and events

- **Type-safe Theming**:
  - Leveraging Tailwind Variants for type-safe styling options
  - Customizable types for extended theme configurations

::note{to="/components/accordion#with-custom-slot" aria-label="Accordion component with custom slot"}
Check out an example of the Accordion component with auto-completion for props and slots.
::

### Vue compatibility

You can now use Nuxt UI in any Vue project without Nuxt by adding the Vite and Vue plugins to your configuration. This provides:

- **Auto-imports**: Components and composables are automatically imported and available globally
- **Theming System**: Full theming support with customizable colors, sizes, variants and more
- **Developer Experience**: Complete TypeScript support with IntelliSense and auto-completion

::tip{to="/getting-started/installation/vue" aria-label="Vue installation guide"}
Learn how to install and configure Nuxt UI in a Vue project in the **Vue installation guide**.
::

### Nuxt DevTools Integration

You can play with Nuxt UI components as well as your app components directly from Nuxt Devtools with the [compodium](https://github.com/romhml/compodium) module, providing a powerful development experience:

- **Component Inspector**: Inspect and analyze Nuxt UI components in real-time
- **Live Preview**: Modify component props and see changes instantly
- **Code Generation**: Get the corresponding code for your component configurations

::note
Install the module to your Nuxt application with one command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi module add compodium
```
::

::video{poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/so_0/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.jpg" controls class="w-full h-auto rounded"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.webm" type="video/webm"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.mp4" type="video/mp4"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.ogg" type="video/ogg"}
::

## Migration

We want to be transparent: migrating from Nuxt UI v2 to v3 will require significant effort. While we've maintained core concepts and components, Nuxt UI v3 has been rebuilt from the ground up, resulting in a new library with enhanced capabilities.

Key points to consider:

- A comprehensive migration guide will be available in the coming weeks.
- Review the new documentation and components carefully before attempting to upgrade.
- If you encounter any issues, please report them on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nuxt/ui/issues).

## FAQ

::accordion
  ::accordion-item{label="What are the main considerations when upgrading to Nuxt UI v3?"}
  The transition to v3 involves significant changes, including new component structures, updated theming approaches, and revised TypeScript definitions. We recommend a careful, incremental upgrade process, starting with thorough testing in a development environment.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="Is Nuxt UI v3 compatible with standalone Vue projects?"}
  Nuxt UI is now compatible with Vue! You can follow the [installation guide](/getting-started/installation/vue) to get started.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="What about Nuxt UI Pro?"}
  We've also rebuilt Nuxt UI Pro from scratch and released a `v3.0.0-alpha.x` package with almost all components ready. This is a free update, so the license you buy now is valid for all UI Pro versions. We're actively working to finish the rewrite of all Nuxt UI Pro components.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="Will Nuxt UI v3 work with other CSS frameworks like UnoCSS?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 is currently designed to work exclusively with Tailwind CSS. While there's interest in UnoCSS support, implementing it would require significant changes to the theme structure due to differences in class naming conventions. As a result, we don't have plans to add UnoCSS support in v3.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="How does Nuxt UI v3 handle accessibility?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 enhances accessibility through Reka UI integration. This provides automatic ARIA attributes, keyboard navigation support, intelligent focus management, and screen reader announcements. While offering a strong foundation, proper implementation and testing in your specific use case remains crucial for full accessibility compliance. For more detailed information, refer to [Reka UI's accessibility documentation](https://reka-ui.com/docs/overview/accessibility).
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="What is the testing approach for Nuxt UI v3?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 ensures reliability with 1000+ Vitest tests, covering core functionality and accessibility. This robust testing suite supports the library's stability and serves as a reference for developers.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="Is this version stable and suitable for production use?"}
  As Nuxt UI v3 is currently in alpha, we recommend thorough testing before using it in production environments. We're actively working on stabilization and welcome feedback from early adopters to improve the library. Feel free to report any issues you encounter on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nuxt/ui/issues).
  ::
::

:hr

We're excited about the possibilities Nuxt UI v3 brings to your projects. Explore our documentation to learn more about new features, components, and best practices for building powerful, accessible user interfaces with Nuxt UI v3.

Commit message:

docs(getting-started): update for beta

docs/content/1.getting-started/1.index.md, after:

---
navigation.title: Introduction
title: Nuxt UI v3
description: 'A comprehensive, Nuxt-integrated UI library providing a rich set of fully-styled, accessible and highly customizable components for building modern web applications.'
navigation.icon: i-lucide-house
---

We're thrilled to introduce this major update to our UI library, bringing significant improvements and powerful new features. Nuxt UI v3 represents a leap forward in creating robust, accessible, and highly customizable user interfaces for Nuxt applications.

## What's New in v3?

<iframe width="100%" height="100%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/_eQxomah-nA?si=pDSzchUBDKb2NQu7" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen style="aspect-ratio: 16/9;" class="rounded-[calc(var(--ui-radius)*1.5)]"></iframe>

### Reka UI

We've transitioned from [Headless UI](https://headlessui.com/) to [Reka UI](https://reka-ui.com/) as our core component foundation. This shift brings several key advantages:

- **Extensive Component Library**: With 55+ primitives, Reka UI significantly expands our component offerings.
- **Active Development**: Reka UI's growing popularity ensures ongoing improvements and updates.
- **Enhanced Accessibility**: Built-in accessibility features align with our commitment to inclusive design.
- **Vue 3 Optimization**: Seamless integration with Vue 3 and the Composition API.

This transition empowers Nuxt UI to become a more comprehensive and flexible UI library, offering developers greater power and customization options.

### Tailwind CSS v4

Nuxt UI v3 integrates the latest Tailwind CSS v4, bringing significant improvements:

- **Built for performance**: Full builds in the new engine are up to 5x faster, and incremental builds are over 100x faster — and measured in microseconds.
- **Unified toolchain**: Built-in import handling, vendor prefixing, and syntax transforms, with no additional tooling required.
- **CSS-first configuration**: A reimagined developer experience where you customize and extend the framework directly in CSS instead of a JavaScript configuration file.
- **Designed for the modern web**: Built on native cascade layers, wide-gamut colors, and including first-class support for modern CSS features like container queries, @starting-style, popovers, and more.

::note{to="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/upgrade-guide" target="_blank" aria-label="Tailwind CSS v4 upgrade guide"}
Learn how to upgrade your project from Tailwind CSS v3 to v4.
::

### Tailwind Variants

We've adopted [Tailwind Variants](https://www.tailwind-variants.org/) to manage our design system, offering:

- **Dynamic Styling**: Flexible component variants with a powerful API
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with auto-completion
- **Conflict Resolution**: Efficient merging of conflicting styles

This integration unifies the styling of components, ensuring consistency and code maintainability.

### TypeScript Integration

Nuxt UI v3 offers significantly improved TypeScript integration, providing a superior developer experience:

- **Enhanced Auto-completion**:
  - Full auto-completion for component props based on your theme
  - Intelligent suggestions for `app.config.ts` theme configuration

- **Generic-based Components**:
  - Built using [Vue 3 Generics](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-script-setup.html#generics)
  - Improved type inference for slots and events

- **Type-safe Theming**:
  - Leveraging Tailwind Variants for type-safe styling options
  - Customizable types for extended theme configurations

::note{to="/components/accordion#with-custom-slot" aria-label="Accordion component with custom slot"}
Check out an example of the Accordion component with auto-completion for props and slots.
::

### Vue compatibility

You can now use Nuxt UI in any Vue project without Nuxt by adding the Vite and Vue plugins to your configuration. This provides:

- **Auto-imports**: Components and composables are automatically imported and available globally
- **Theming System**: Full theming support with customizable colors, sizes, variants and more
- **Developer Experience**: Complete TypeScript support with IntelliSense and auto-completion

::tip{to="/getting-started/installation/vue" aria-label="Vue installation guide"}
Learn how to install and configure Nuxt UI in a Vue project in the **Vue installation guide**.
::

### Nuxt DevTools Integration

You can play with Nuxt UI components as well as your app components directly from Nuxt Devtools with the [compodium](https://github.com/romhml/compodium) module, providing a powerful development experience:

- **Component Inspector**: Inspect and analyze Nuxt UI components in real-time
- **Live Preview**: Modify component props and see changes instantly
- **Code Generation**: Get the corresponding code for your component configurations

::note
Install the module to your Nuxt application with one command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi module add compodium
```
::

::video{poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/so_0/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.jpg" controls class="w-full h-auto rounded"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.webm" type="video/webm"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.mp4" type="video/mp4"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1740751953/nuxt-ui/nuxt-compodium_y2bvqw.ogg" type="video/ogg"}
::

## Migration

We want to be transparent: migrating from Nuxt UI v2 to v3 will require significant effort. While we've maintained core concepts and components, Nuxt UI v3 has been rebuilt from the ground up, resulting in a new library with enhanced capabilities.

Key points to consider:

- A comprehensive migration guide will be available in the coming weeks.
- Review the new documentation and components carefully before attempting to upgrade.
- If you encounter any issues, please report them on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nuxt/ui/issues).

## FAQ

::accordion
  ::accordion-item{label="What are the main considerations when upgrading to Nuxt UI v3?"}
  The transition to v3 involves significant changes, including new component structures, updated theming approaches, and revised TypeScript definitions. We recommend a careful, incremental upgrade process, starting with thorough testing in a development environment.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="Is Nuxt UI v3 compatible with standalone Vue projects?"}
  Nuxt UI is now compatible with Vue! You can follow the [installation guide](/getting-started/installation/vue) to get started.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="What about Nuxt UI Pro?"}
  We've also rebuilt Nuxt UI Pro from scratch as v3 to match Nuxt UI version. The license you bought or will buy is valid for both Nuxt UI Pro v1 and v3, this is a **free update**. You can follow the [installation guide](/getting-started/installation/pro/nuxt) to get started.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="Will Nuxt UI v3 work with other CSS frameworks like UnoCSS?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 is currently designed to work exclusively with Tailwind CSS. While there's interest in UnoCSS support, implementing it would require significant changes to the theme structure due to differences in class naming conventions. As a result, we don't have plans to add UnoCSS support in v3.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="How does Nuxt UI v3 handle accessibility?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 enhances accessibility through Reka UI integration. This provides automatic ARIA attributes, keyboard navigation support, intelligent focus management, and screen reader announcements. While offering a strong foundation, proper implementation and testing in your specific use case remains crucial for full accessibility compliance. For more detailed information, refer to [Reka UI's accessibility documentation](https://reka-ui.com/docs/overview/accessibility).
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="What is the testing approach for Nuxt UI v3?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 ensures reliability with 1000+ Vitest tests, covering core functionality and accessibility. This robust testing suite supports the library's stability and serves as a reference for developers.
  ::

  ::accordion-item{label="Is this version stable and suitable for production use?"}
  Nuxt UI v3 is now in beta and is stable enough to be used in production. We now recommend using v3 over v2. We welcome feedback from users to help improve the library further. Feel free to report any issues you encounter on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nuxt/ui/issues).
  ::
::

:hr

We're excited about the possibilities Nuxt UI v3 brings to your projects. Explore our documentation to learn more about new features, components, and best practices for building powerful, accessible user interfaces with Nuxt UI v3.
